This lectures going to talk about
reading and writing data in R.
So there's a few different types of
ways you can do this and I want to talk
about some of the primary functions
that use an R to read and write data.
So there are a few principle functions
that we're going to talk about for
reading into R.
The first two are read.table and read.csv
and these are for reading tabular data.
And they are probably the two
most commonly used functions for
reading data into R.
These functions read text files that,
that contain data that are stored in
kind of rows and columns type of
format and return a data frame in R.
The function read lines is for reading
lines of a text file so this, this can
be any type of file really, it just gives
you text in a, as a character vector in R.
The source function is important for
reading R code, so if you have R code, for
example functions or
anything written get written to
a file the source function will
read all that code into R.
The dget function is also for
reading R code files but it's for
reading R objects that have
been dparsed into text files.
We'll talk a little more about this later.
The low and unserialized functions are for
reading binary objects into R.
So the analogous functions for writing
data are write.table, writeLines, dump,
dput, save and serialize and those kind
of pair up with their reading analog.
So, the read.table function is
the most commonly used function for
reading data into R.
It's important that you know kind of,
how the arguments work,
what the arguments are and
understand what they mean.
So the first argument is pretty obvious,
it's name of a file or
the name of a connection,
which we'll get to a little bit later.
Usually you're going to give this a file
name, it's going to be a string and
it's going to be a path to
a certain file in your computer.
The header is a logical flag indicating
whether the first line is a header line,
so if the first line for example it
has all the variable names in it,
then that's not really a piece of data,
that's just a line that has labels on it.
So you want to tell the read.table
function whether the first line contains
the variable names or not or whether
the line just, right away contains data.
The sep argument stands for separator.
it's, it's a string that indicates
how the columns are separated.
So for example if you have a file that's
separated by commas then the separator
has a comma.
You may sometimes files are separated
by semicolons or by tabs or by spaces.
And so you want to tell read.table
what the separator is going to be.
ColClasses is a character vector
which indi wh, wh, which,
whose length is the same length as
the number of columns the data set.
And the character vector indicates what,
what is the class of
each column the data set.
So, for example, is the,
if the first column is numeric and
the second column is logical, and
the third column is a factor, et cetera.
And so the colClass is a vector,
which is not required but it,
it tells the, it tells read.table what
the class of the data is for each column.
End rows is the number of rows in
the data set, this is not required but
it it can be used.
Comment.char is the character string that
indicates what's the comments character So
the default, for example, is the pound
symbol or the sharp symbol and anything
after, anything to the right of that
symbol is ignored the comment character.
So you can specify other characters to
be comment characters, and the lines,
lines of the file that begin with that
comment character will be ignored.
Skip is the number of lines
to skip from the beginning.
So sometimes there may be some header
information or some non-data region at
the beginning of the file, and
you want to skip right over that.
And so you can tell the read.table
function to skip the say the first ten
lines of the first 100 lines and
then only start reading data after that.
Last argument is strings as
factors this defaults to true.
And the idea is that it,
the question is whether you want to
encode character variables as factors.
So by default.
Anytime our read.table encounters
a column of data that looks like
it's a character variable,
it will call, it will assume that what,
what you mean to read in,
is a factor variable.
If you don't me,
mean to read this in as a factor variable,
then you can set strings
as factors equal to false.
So for small and
kind of moderately sized data sets it has
computers are going to get better and
better everyday, the definition of
small and moderate is kind of growing.
But you can use read.table
usually without specifying any of
the other arguments besides the file name.
So you can say read.table on, say foo dot
text so this is just the name of the file,
and it will automatically take care of
figuring out, you know, what the c,
classes of the different columns are,
it'll figure out how many rows there are,
et cetera.
So you don't have to specify any of that
information if you don't feel like it.
And, and then, and then, this will return
an object here ca, that I call data, and
that would be a data frame.
So it'll automatically skip any lines and
begin with the comment symbol.
It will figure out how many
rows there are and, agai,
and again it'll figure out what type of
variable is in each column of the table.
So, tell it you can, that you can tell R
all these things and if you want to and
the reason you might do that is to make
it run faster and more efficiently.
So with small and moderate size datasets
its really not much advantage to doing
that because because it'll be pretty
fast and pretty efficient as it is.
The read.csv function is identical
to read.table, except for
the key differences that the, the default
separator for the read.csv function is
the comma, whereas the default
separator for read.table is the space.
So parti, so read.csv is useful for
reading csv files,
this, this can usually,
this stands for comma separated value.
It's usually something that you
get from a spreadsheet program,
like Microsoft Excel or
something similar to that.
So csv is a very common format
that most spreadsheet types of
programs will understand.
The other thing that read.csv specifies
is that it always specified header to
be equal to true.